# CS-465 Full Stack Development with MEAN

## Architecture
### Compare and contrast the types of frontend development you used in your full stack project, including Express HTML, JavaScript, and the single-page application (SPA).
The client-side webpage uses Express HTML to render static content. Handlebars was then integrated into the framework to retrieve data from the database and display it on the browser, offering a more dynamic method of rendering the webpage data. The administrative-side webpage uses Angular to render a single-page application, which dynamically updates site data without requiring a page reload. SPA's offer a seamless and responsive experience. However, the initial loading times when accessing these webpages may take longer than multi-page applications (MPA) since all of the relevant data must be received by the administrative-side. 
### Why did the backend use a NoSQL MongoDB database?
NoSQL databases are flexible and easily adapt to changing data structures, attributes that are particularly useful for applications that require constant communication to and from the server along with frequent data queries. These databases also scale well by adding additional servers as data volumes increase.

## Functionality
### How is JSON different from Javascript and how does JSON tie together the frontend and backend development pieces?
Javascript is a web-related programming language that supports methods and functions like other languages. JSON is a data format used to exchange data between different applications. In this case, JSON facilitated data exchanges between the client- and administrative-side webpages and the MongoDB server. In essence, the various interactions users could experience within the website were made possible with Javascript, and JSON helped the different parts of the web application communicate with one another through a standardized format.
### Provide instances in the full stack process when you refactored code to improve functionality and efficiencies, and name the benefits that come from reusable user interface (UI) components.
The static .html files for the customer-facing webpages all initially had the same code for their headers and footers. Handlebars supported templating through partials, which I took advantage of to reduce redundant code needed for each webpage. The Trips content on the Travel page was originally hard-coded, but was refactored to display this data by reading a JSON file. This technique was also repeated on the Rooms content to further reduce the number of static HTML code lines. Furthermore, the list of Trip data could only be viewed as cards. Incorporating additional types of views, such as a list view, would require much more code, but by separating the logic needed to render the card view from the rest of the 'trip list' component, 'trip list' only needs to select the component containing the logic corresponding to the desired view.

## Testing
### Methods for request and retrieval necessitate various types of API testing of endpoints, in addition to the difficulties of testing with added layers of security. Explain your understanding of methods, endpoints, and security in a full stack application.
GET, PUT, POST, and DELETE were methods used along with Postman and MongoDB Compass to test the various API endpoints in the web application. Performing unit tests ensured that all components worked independently before performing integration tests to check that the desired results were still achieved after introducing components to one another. Postman was also utilized when implementing and testing security features. Error handling, console logs, and checking database items provided useful information on whether user credentials were properly stored and if tokens functioned as expected.

## Reflection
### How has this course helped you in reaching your professional goals? What skills have you learned, developed, or mastered in this course to help you become a more marketable candidate in your career field?
I was always curious about web application development since websites are one of the most popular mediums in use. I only had surface-level knowledge of HTML/CSS, so I was pleasantly surprised to not only dive deeper into formatting webpages but to also work through an application from the front to the end. Prior courses focused on specific topics such as web design, database management, or implementing the middleware between a client and server. This course finally combined all of this prior knowledge to provide experience creating an application by handling the frontend, backend, and the tools needed to integrate them seamlessly. I've become a more well-rounded developer by learning Full Stack, and I'm excited to see what new opportunities I might encounter with my newly acquired skills.
